for more than a month now Israel has
waged an unprecedented war on the
besieged Gaza Strip what many have
described quite frankly as genocidal
ethnic cleansing an attempt to wipe out
and or expel Palestinians from their
homes but we all know that all this
didn't start on October 7th nor is it
likely to end if and when the Israeli
military stops bombing The besieged
Enclave this has gone on for 75 years
will it ever
[Music]
end
let's take a sidebar and talk to Daniel
pipes a controversial academic and
political commentator and the president
of the us-based Middle East Forum Mr
Daniel pipes thank you very much for
joining us on sidebar you've uh recently
written a book entitled Israel Victory
Zionist acceptance and Palestinian
Liberation now uh we're coming into
close to 40 days of uh what is
essentially uh Israeli uh attempts at
genocide in uh Gaza um this isn't uh as
everybody knows uh the first time that
there has been uh a war on Gaza nor uh
did the crisis that uh uh exists in that
area start uh 40 days ago it's something
that has been going on for uh decades
now so I want to start by asking where
you view things mov moving forward and
how you view that this uh decades long
uh conflict can come to some sort of an
end sure i' be happy to but before we
get started could I ask you not to use
such loaded terms as Israeli genocide
against the Palestinians that that then
requires me to have to answer it I'm not
going to answer I mean if you you don't
need to I I'm just if just for our
viewers um the United Nations Article 2
of the UN convention describes genocide
as a crime committed with the intent to
destroy a nation National ethnic racial
or religious group in whole or in part
the Oxford English Dictionary describes
it as the deliberate killing of a people
from a particular Nation or ethnic group
The of destroying so they're not my
words we won't have a productive
conversation if you're going to quote me
the United Nations I can point out to
you what happened October 7th that's not
productive I don't really want to engage
what about the Oxford what about the
Oxford English Dictionary I do not want
to engage in pics about the conflict
between the Palestinians and Israelis
it's really not a useful thing so please
don't use words like genocide and I
won't you're free you're free of course
you're you're free to disagree with them
but but let's let's move on I mean they
those are like I say they're not
opinions we're just going with what we
view in the in English language as as
the most accurate term as journalists
and and that's all but but go ahead how
how do you view things moving forward
moving forward I see that the Israelis
seem to be today November 14th on the
the verge of taking control of Gaza or
at least Northern Gaza and that Hamas
seems to have lost control of it and so
this is a very important moment because
now we will see what the Israelis have
in mind for the future of Gaza there are
various options one is for the israelit
to come back and take it over and
administer the area a second is to bring
in the Palestinian
Authority a third is to invite some
combination of foreign countries and
organizations to come in and take it
over uh I have my own idea which is that
the
Israelis carefully and quickly turn the
administration over to gazin Gins who
are opposed to Hamas opposed to the goal
of destroying Israel Gins who are
willing to live in neighborly way next
to Israel that's not to say they're
pro-israel I'm not saying they're
Democratic I'm not saying it's a great
place to be but it's a decent place to
be Gaza has suffered for the last 15
years from the rule of Hamas I think the
gazans would be much better off if they
lived in environments such as those that
can be found in Egypt or Jordan I'm
hoping that the Israelis will and the
gazin will agree to such an arrangement
where Gaza is administered police
schools hospitals utilities by gazes
themselves no longer if you mind I want
to ask you just a couple of things just
to to kind of deconstruct a little bit
of of that view there the first is uh
your suggestion that the Israelis should
uh uh hand over the administration to
gazin that uh or people in Gaza that it
deems fit right not that the people in
Gaza should choose who their leadership
is precisely because in no Arab speaking
country do the people decide who their
leadership is so this would be
completely consistent with Egypt Jordan
Saudi Arabia Qatar and Beyond is that
because Arabs don't deserve to choose
who their leadership should be no it's
because it has been very difficult for
Democratic institutions to last look
look at Lebanon where they lasted
longest it's very difficult so let's not
look for the ideal let's accept they're
they're realistic but don't don't you
view that as a problematic approach um
that western or foreign or yeah
essentially foreign people should decide
on behalf of an indigenous people who
should rule them it's not ideal but it's
certainly better than what has been the
case in Gaza pretty racist last 15 years
not racist at all it's saying Gaza is in
terrible condition and to establish
administration of why is it in a
terrible condition
it's in a terrible condition because
rather than build a
constructive economically buoyant
politically stable country Hamas has
used Gaza as a platform to attack Israel
what's the foundations of a strong
economically stable country or
entity well the first thing you do is
not try and destroy your much larger
more powerful
neighbor okay but it also it's based on
trade no trade indeed how can you trade
when you are besieged by land air and
sea I point out that Gaza has two
borders one with Israel and one with
Egypt and if the gazan authorities Hamas
had not been so destructive in their
intentions the borders would have been
open on both sides and Gins would come
and go trade would come and go but
because this was for 15 years 2008 until
the present used as a platform for
attack
of course I was isolated and besieged
but that was a choice that Hamas made
but I really don't want to argue the
Rights and Wrongs of the Arab ear but I
think no but it's it's based on the not
not to argue about rights or wrongs no
no it's just about trying to understand
your view moving forward because it's
based on our premise and and what I'm
understanding and I read some of the
excerpts of your book and other writings
and now discussing with you uh the
premise that you're going off on if I'm
correct me if I'm wrong here is that
number one the Palestinians shouldn't
have a right to self-determination they
should be dictated who will rule them
number two that they are somehow
responsible for the misery that they
live in and essentially it negates the
fact that they have been under illegal
occupation as well as besiegement for uh
decades essentially and therefore that
that premise seems as a false One how
can you base a solution when the actual
uh prognosis that has been uh applied to
it is an inaccurate one you're making
two points the first one is about the
Israelis finding the administrators I
agree with you that's not ideal but it's
a lot better than Hamas ruling the
territory why why don't we say that the
Israelis somebody should come and
dictate to the Israelis who rules them
instead of members of the knesset or the
cabinet who have essentially called for
massacres and ethnic cleansing I on to
discuss my idea is not to discuss the
Rights and Wrongs this isn't
about idea do I really need to point out
to you that the Israelis left Gaza in
2005 do you really I would yes of course
because they didn't leave sir and you
know this come on let's not I'm not
coming you've now brought that up not me
but they didn't leave in 2005 they
besieged it they they locked the doors
they decided who goes in what goes in
you can't go fishing a few kilometers
into the water you can't fly a kite
without being there really boys who are
sh on the beach you can't bring that I I
really don't want to do this I really
don't want to argue the Rights and
Wrongs of the Gaza Israel this isn't
about arguing right or wrong it's about
trying to understand your point of view
moving forward sir you can't accept you
can't expect me to accept it or you
can't expect the viewer to accept it
without understanding what it is based
on it's a very simple simple discussion
that's all it is based on the fact that
Israel left completely every single
Israeli left was forced out in 05 by its
own military Israelis left and they
wanted nothing to do with Gaza but the
gazans kept attacking them and so they
had to find things ways to deal with it
but the fact is that until a few weeks
ago Gaza had no Israelis in it
whatsoever sir if I was to leave your
house and and park a tank outside it and
park a tank on the back would you
consider yourself free this is so
tedious
really you really wanted to argue this I
have ideas you ask me about my ideas so
tell me tell tell me your ideas tell go
ahead let's let's let's hear your ideas
is moving forward aside from the
Palestinians being dictated who who who
uh who should lead them what else are
they sir I believe
that the is let's call them Israelis and
Palestinians though they weren't called
that in the 19th century I believe that
the Israelis and Palestinians have two
sets of
mentalities that go back the whole way
140 years to the 1880s that are very
consistent and are very inappropriate
and I'm hoping there'll be changes in
them those ideas are on the Palestinian
side that Zionism Jews Israel are
unwanted should not be there should be
pushed out should be killed should be
rejected all all three of them Zionism
Jews and Israel you're conflating both
Judaism and Zionism here yes yes with
exception of a few a few a few members
of what are called the old yeshu the pr
Zionist Jews of Palestine in the 1820s
30s with those few exceptions people who
prayed and didn't do much economically
or socially that that they rejected this
they didn't want it and that has been
the approach of the Palestinians ever
since and the Zionist or Israeli
approach has been to try and plate and
try and conciliate and try and enrich
and say to the Palestinians look you'll
be better off you'll have modern
agriculture you'll have roads you'll
have fresh water you'll have electricity
you'll be better off thanks to our
presence here this was an attit this was
an approach that started Way Way Back
140 years ago and continues today these
may have made sense in the 1980s they
don't make sense today and I'm hoping
that there can be a change in these
attitudes of rejection and conciliation
which are very sterile which go on
decade after decade and which lead us to
the problems which we now have so so
we'll go into if you don't mind those
two attitudes as you mentioned uh the
first one if you don't mind I'll start
with the latter one which is you as you
say the uh attempts by Z ists to uh
plate the Palestinians as you mentioned
and to convince them that they would be
better off with Zionist presence because
of Agriculture water and economy right
deade and enrich yes you're talking
about enrichment yeah yeah so that's
correct so over over the past uh 75
years Arab owned land uh has reduced
drastically the demolition of uh Arab
homes has uh increased greatly
unemployment has
increased um you've got uh you know
aside from I'm not going to get into all
the schools that have been bombed and
all the killings and all of that but
let's just go into the economic
perspective uh of things as you
mentioned there with water uh resources
according to the United Nations and
other International organizations in
fact according to betum uh being hugely
skewed in favor of the Jewish population
of Israel it's a very strange way of
trying to show you're trying to Plate
the population I mean I'd hate to see
how trying to show them that you dislike
them would look like okay well let's
take that the Israelis took control of
Gaza and the West Bank not just Gaza I'm
talking about the entirety I said Gaza
and the West Bank in June
1967 the next 20 years until the
beginning of the
in showed an extraordinary
economic success in both areas they were
one of the fastest growing economic
areas in the world faster than for
example Taiwan and South Korea faster
than Israel itself or the residents of
the West Bank and gazin for the
Palestinians it was enormously
successful unties based on what metrix
I'll be happy to send you the
proof universities got started there
were no universities before hospitals
got
established uh
buil by who what I'm asking who what
what are these we're not talking about
who I'm saying that for 20 years there
was a economic boom in the West Bank in
Gaza so long as Israelis were in charge
and there wasn't much of a protest
against them it was a tremendous
economic boom that began to end with the
antifa and it completely ended after the
oso Accords yaser Arafat coming in
taking over making clear that economics
was not his concern that he was
interested in using the West Bank and
Gaza as platforms for the destruction of
Israel and Hamas furthered that so now
you have the economic Horror Story that
you can see in Gaza but it was doing
very well so you shouldn't conflate all
these different periods the the
Palestinian people are perfectly capable
of building their economy and living
good productive lives but they have in
in the form long as they're subservient
to the Israelis is what no so long as
they're not under yasar Arafat and and
Hamas so long as they're not under
brutal totalitarian Thugs who use them
exploit them
as Canon F against the
Israelis so I mean obviously in the
absence of uh figures that that uh
corroborates your your view here let's
move to the idea of the Palestinians as
you mentioned rejecting um Zionism and
as well you said there Jew Jews as well
although you did say there was an
exception uh of the uh Jews I'm assuming
here you're talking about the Samaritan
Jews or I'm not sure or the which which
Jews you're talking about that the the
Arabs didn't reject the old issue that
is to say the very small group of Pious
Jews who came mostly from Eastern Europe
to to Jerusalem Tiberia saat yes uh heon
to to pray basically to be whove been
there for for many many years no no many
of them came newly they were immigrants
a number of them but they were not they
were not in any way a challenge they
were not engaged in agriculture they
were not building economic base they did
not have an ideology about building a
Jewish homeland so they they were in
theory acceptable so see that point
there that you you put in there that
they weren't there they weren't
interested in building a Jewish homeland
here is why I want to ask you about why
you you coupled both Zionism and Judaism
because historically and I obviously you
are
historian and somebody who who is well
read on it um historically Jews living
in the Arab world prior to Zionism uh uh
did not have an issue as they did for
example in Europe or in Russia and other
places um and to assume that the
Palestinians as you mentioned there have
some sort of innate objection to Judaism
and want to push some sort of uh agenda
against Jews either within Palestine or
even even as you mentioned
internationally is something that
doesn't really add up with the fact that
it is about Judaism in so much as it is
about those who came to set up a land on
their land well you put words in my
mouth let me say what I think rather
than please do respond to your version
what I think I think yes I agree that
the experience of Jews in Muslim
countries let's drop the word Arab
Muslim countries whether arabic speaking
or Turkish speaking or Persian speaking
or otherwise the experience of Jews in
Muslim countries until
1945 was better than the experience of
Jews in Christian countries no question
that's not to say it was ideal was not
to say that there wasn't bias there
wasn't Prejudice there wasn't
discrimination there was plenty of that
but overall the Jewish experience was
better in Muslim majority countries than
in Christian majority countries and the
proof of that is that time and again
Jews from the 7th Century till the 20th
went from Christian majority countries
to Muslim majority countries the very
first time I think was in Egypt in the
630s ad and the last time was during
World in the buildup to World War II
when German Jews left Germany and went
to Turkey and sees us again and again
true it's it wasn't ideal but it was
better than the there was no prg rums
there was no Holocaust there wasn't mass
killings there was
there were there were no there was
surely no Holocaust there were small
programs but yes overall was definitely
better since 1945 however and that
predates Israel since 1945 the situation
isn't dramatically reversed where the
sit the circumstances of Jews much
better Christian majority countries than
Muslim majority countries so look a
million Jews left
Morocco Algeria Tunisia Libya Egypt go a
whole way across to Afghanistan uh all
of them essentially all of them left
maybe 20,000 now they left it became
very very unpleasant and that's because
the latent anti-Semitism that exists in
Islam
became not latent anymore but blatant
became uh forward why was that just
coincidental or or why do you think that
was that had to do with the leadership
of the Muslim majority countries that
decided that uh anti-jewish
sentiments as well as anti- Zion
sentiments were useful to them so for
example in a place like Morocco which
historically was quite quite a good
place for Jews uh there were uh many
efforts to show the Jews that they were
not welcome and so they left they left
you don't think that the fact that was
uh for the past 15 years before that
mass migration uh towards uh Palestine
there was the setting up of militia like
the uron and the Hagan and others uh and
there was massacres that were taking
place on Arab lands that that word
spread around the Arab world and that
fed into the uh the sentiment that was
being targeted towards uh them so you're
justifying the treatment of say Iraqi
Jews by what happened in Palestine I'm
not justifying I'm asking you think
there's a corroboration I'm not trying
to justify anything I'm just asking is
there do you believe there could have
been a corroboration between the two
that's all there's no question that the
Palestinian movement led by Amin Al
husseini
encouraged leaders from countries like
uh Iraq Egypt and Morocco to turn
against their Jews to apply pressure on
their Jews and they did they found it
useful now the Arab speaking countries
the governments of arabic speaking
countries long ago realized excuse me
that this was not a good idea they
pursued this 30s 40s 50s 60s and then
they stopped this is no longer what what
the governments are doing it's quite
dramatic I mean you'll
see very nasty language coming out of
Iran and turkey but you don't hear it
coming out of Arab camps Arab capitals
don't do this anymore they've left this
behind they realize that this was not
useful but by by Arab capitals do you
mean the regimes or the people no I'm
talking about the regimes the regimes
let's take NASA the best known the most
important he was a soldier in 1948
fighting against is he came to power in
the early 50s and he found the uh
antagonism against anti-zionism he found
it to be very very helpful mobilizing
distracting his population and his
population was mobilized and
distracted he's long gone he died in
1970 and the successors have all for
this 50 plus years been trying to move
away from that they find anti-zionism a
problem however the Egyptian population
remains quite
anti-zionist and the governments are
trying to reduce this so I want to I
want to ask you on that on that point
that's why I wanted to to to see where
where your view was on that um because
here we're going to come to the
normalization and and other things about
moving forward with within not just
within uh Palestine but Beyond in the in
in the region but first I I just want to
ask you you you had said um speaking at
the Zionist Federation once or or or
Congress that the Israelis must be
encouraged to defeat the Palestinians I
just want to understand what does that
mean what do you mean by the Israelis
because part of your book is calling for
you say that the diplomacy doesn't work
essentially and the way forward is for
total victory in war by the Israelis um
and only then can the Palestinians be
liberated ultimately when they're
totally defeated can can you explain
that a bit please you're not quoting the
accurately I didn't say total Victory
and War I said Victory that's all and by
what I mean by Victory is that the
Palestinians recognize that their
mentality of rejectionism I'm saying no
no no no no is bad for them bad for
Israel bad for everyone but it's time
for the Palestinians to come to terms
with existence of the state of Israel it
is 75 years old it is there it is strong
it is permanent and it's time for the
Palestinians to come to terms with it
and when they do they will be liberated
from their obsessive irredentism against
their neighbor which harms their
neighbor of course Israel but it harms
them even more I mean look at Gaza today
look how much harm this is done it's
time for the Palestinians to move on and
that's only going to happen when the
Israelis make that their goal which
they're not doing until now maybe in the
last few weeks it's changed but until
now their approach has been one of
management dealing with it but I think
that's the wrong approach it just keep I
need to just deconstruct this because
again this is something for our viewers
to understand
here and these aren't loaded
terminologies like I say I will use I
will reference bet Salam which is an
Israeli human rights organization and
Amnesty International and others who say
that what Israel is practicing is a
parte okay now ultimately how it comes
across and please feel free to correct
me and and if I'm misquoting or
misunderstanding you but how it comes
across here is it as if somebody were to
tell the black South Africans the
indigenous people of South Africa or
Nelson Mandela that you must stop
resisting a partide because it will just
bring you misery and the sooner you
liberate yourself from an attempt to
free yourself and just accept that you
will be second class citizens or accept
that you will be governed by you will
have no self-determination the happier
you will be is that analogy in your view
correct the analogy if there if you must
draw an analogy between South Africa and
Israel it would be between the black
South Africans and the Muslim citizens
of Israel who constitute nearly 20% of
Israel who I will not argue Christians
by the way very few almost entirely
Muslim they're Drews they're Christians
but it's very very largely
Muslim they are not in perfect
conditions uh they have
many uh complaints about police presence
about investment in infrastructure and
the like but they are free people they
are productive people
they are presidents of banks they're
members of the Supreme Court they're
members of of
parliament uh they are teachers they are
doctors and so forth there's no
apartheid they can go where they want
they can live where they want they have
the same rights and duties as Jewish
Israelis it's not perfect I grant you
that but it is
fundamentally
egalitarian with every Israeli citizen
whe Muslim or Jewish or Christian or
Drews or other are having the same
rights so it's an absurd comparison
there's no parthe regime in Israel there
is equality how do you explain Muslim
Israelis on the Supreme Court how do you
explain that they're ambassadors how do
you explain that they're Ministers of
State how do you explain that if there's
a there's much I mean there there are
there you had uh the British uh Home
Secretary or or the former British home
secret secretary who was from an ethnic
minority who was the biggest champion of
racist policies it doesn't mean much in
the end of the day and you'll have that
in every country where you have
tokenistic people I don't think that but
the what what will explain the aparte as
I say according to Human Rights
organizations is the different number
plates that are being used is the fact
that uh you
have different uh allocation of water of
electricity of land of roads that are
specifically designated to settlers to
use and others there's plenty you're
talking wait a minute you're talking
about the West Bank whether you're right
or wrong you're talking about the West
Bank I'm talking about Israel proper
what is Israel proper because Israel
hasn't even defined its the borders what
is Israel proper Israel proper is within
the green line within the green line the
citizens of Israel whether they be
Muslim or Jewish have the same license
plates use the same what about the ones
in in Jerusalem what about the ones in
Jerusalem who have house constantly
there you brought up South Africa and I
reluctantly went ahead with the
comparison and the comparison is the
citizens of South Africa black brown and
white and the citizens of Israel Muslim
and Jewish and I'm saying there is no
comparison now if you want to switch
subjects and go to the West Bank that's
a completely different story and Gaza
it's a completely different story but if
you want to bring up South Africa the
comparison is with the Israeli Muslim
citizens and they have they're not
tokens they are everywhere in Israel
they're in hospitals they're in Banks
they're universities they're everywhere
they're 20% man they're they're they're
unable to pray in in their holy sites
they also have their homes taken from
them in Jerusalem they also have
eviction notices constantly you can't
dismiss that and say just because there
are a few people that are in some
positions that these things don't happen
these are daily practices in in sh J and
other places it's you're talking about
Eastern you're talking about Eastern
Jerusalem that's not that's not what I
was talking about I was talking about
the citizens of Israel the J Muslim
jerusalemites are not citizens very very
few of them are it's not the topic the
topic are the citizens Muslim citizens
of of C of of that is what's comparable
to South Africa any case I really okay I
I just want to finish finish with one
last with one last question if you don't
mind I just want to finish with one last
question if you don't mind and and
obviously you've written a lot not just
about Israel Palestine but also about uh
what you describe as uh islamist
extremism uh you had obviously the
campus watch initiative uh a couple of
decades ago where it was encouraged to
uh essentially report on what you
perceived to be threats towards the
United States and other places you
describe wait wait wait wait your
character it's not a couple of decades
ago it's still there today the but it
started a couple of decades ago is my
point it started yes it did but made it
sound like it's over and it's not
primarily about students telling on
their teachers it's a very very small
didn't I didn't say students telling
your teachers I said where the point was
we want to hear from students yes but
that's not the primary purpose the
purpose is to critique the study of
Middle East of the Middle East in the
United States there was a there was a
part of it as you mentioned where I want
to ask you about is there is a video
that came up online a couple of days ago
of a chaplain from the United Kingdom
leads University one of the biggest
universities in the United Kingdom uh
who is currently serving uh in the
Israeli Army in Gaza um and uh he's
encouraging his students essentially to
support uh this even though he is a
chaplain at the University part of
Campus watch and part of some of your
teachings was talking about the threat
of uh uh uh what you described as uh
islamists on campus and what impact that
would have on the fabric of American
society on uh uh peace and so forth uh
there and the threat that it posed to
Americans uh I haven't read anything or
heard anything from you about the uh
dual National Israelis in the west who
serve in the Israeli Army um and where
their loyalty stands and what impact
that that extremism can have on uh the
respective uh societies back whether in
the United States or the United Kingdom
or other
places you brought up so many things
about lead University about campus watch
about dual citizen Americans I don't
know where to start let me just say that
uh there are plenty of dual citizens I
am one myself I'm both American and
polish um I don't think that's a problem
Poes don't think it's a problem the
Americans don't think it's a problem
it's very common by now a lot of people
have two or even more no no my question
is about nationality it's about serving
in the Israeli Army and why that doesn't
pose as real a threat as uh the threats
that you say other Muslims uh post what
I I don't see Muslims as a threat I
don't see Islam as a thread see islamism
as a threat I see islamism as a radical
utopian ideology like fascism and
communism it seeks to take use people in
the pursuit of an ideological goal it's
the islamists that un battling whether
it be on the campus or in any other
venue I think islamism is a destructive
ideology first of all to the Muslim
population they're the ones who suffer
the most I mean look at Afghanistan look
at Iran look at Sudan look at what
turkey look at the Terrible Things it's
doing and secondly to the outside world
so I'm not fighting Islam I'm not
fighting Muslims indeed Muslims are the
main Ally in fighting islamism Muslims
are increasingly turning against
islamism I believe but there's no threat
from Zionism is my question you don't
view a threat from militant Zionism
you're kidding me Zionism is a thre to
whom come on islis
million Palestinians or is a threat to
the US economy which it drains for
billions of dollars a year or is a
threat to anybody who criticizes Israel
and could lose their job in Europe as
we've seen we can agree on one thing
that the money the the United States
taxpayers sends to Israel is a bad idea
a few billion a year I agree with you it
shouldn't be but otherwise I see Zionism
as Jewish nationalism no more a threat
than French nationalism or Peruvian
nationalism or or Egyptian nationalism
or katari nationalism I see the threat
being a transnational
radical utopian ideology like fascism
communism or
islamism Zionism is transnational though
but anyway thank you very much we've
finished uh our time here pleasure
talking to you Mr Daniel pipes thank you
you you too
[Music]
Mr